This video is brought to you by keeps.
Hey, wisecrack, Michael here. Obvious today,
we're here to unpack the film with the absolute grossest sound design,
the platform this sleeper hit,
which premiered in 2019 and came to Netflix in 2020,
intrigued a lot of people as they slipped into their own personal socially
distance. Tell the film seems made for wisecrack. A simple,
gross premise as political allegory is basically as irresistible to us as an
all. You can eat taco buffet, but I wouldn't be here.
If there wasn't something bothering me about this film specifically,
is it as smart as it thinks it is?
Let's find out in this wisecrack edition on the platform.
Is it deep or dumb and spoilers.
Ahead.
But before we continue, I want to give a shout out to this week.
Sponsor keeps I love wearing hats. They're pretty much part of my identity.
You probably feel the same way about your hair. It's something people recognize,
and it's probably one way you express yourself.
If you've ever been scared of losing it, then keeps can put your mind at ease,
keeps us in affordable hair loss treatment program that provides FDA approved
prescription and over-the-counter medication with keeps.
There's no trip to the doctor or awkward pharmacy pickup involved.
You can do everything right from the comfort of your own home.
You meet with a doctor virtually and can get the medication delivered right to
your door. Keeping your hair is all about prevention.
So the sooner you take action,
the more hair you can save with keeps some men even report hair regrowth,
find out why it keeps has more five-star reviews than any of its competitors.
And why nearly 100,000 men trust Keith for their hair loss prevention medication
by clicking the link in the description, or am I going to keeps.com/wisecrack?
If you use our link, you can get 50% off your first order.
Stop stressing and keep your hair. Now back to the show,
the platform follows the young idealist scoring and a vertical self-management
center, which is bureaucratic.
Speak for a food themed purge prison inside the concrete walls.
Anything goes well, almost anything.
[Inaudible] I still want you to call me.
Hello.
Prisoners are free to be as gluttonous as possible on their fellow inmates,
murder them, eat them,
or do none of the above and just chill out with a good book.
While all of this is happening.
Prisoners are served food once a day through a floating dumbwaiter containing
elegant,
even decadent dishes as the dumbwaiter makes its way through each of the levels
of the very tall prison.
The tasty feast is quickly consumed and defiled by the prisoners closest to the
top until nothing is left for the prisoners below the basic message.
The film doesn't need a wisecrack breakdown to Dakota.
The prison allegedly makes enough food to feed everyone.
But the greed of those at the top condemns those at the bottom to die from
starvation. Get it it's capitalism. Now,
if the film were just this and get a big old dumb from us,
believe it or not pay Nicholas cage to look into a camera and whisper.
The only thing you have to lose is your chains is not enough for a wisecrack
deep certification,
nor does having a guy that kind of looks like Jesus at times,
or a 333 story building with two prisoners per floor,
which means there are 666 people,
but there is more to this film than that, right?
We're going to focus on a couple of things here, the symbolism,
the use of donkey Otay, and last but not least the Oso confusing ending.
So let's start with the symbolism. As director Goldberg has Taylor,
Tia has stated the film is not a social critique, but a social self-criticism.
In other words, it doesn't just take shots at those in power,
but regular old folks like us, the viewer Goren the idealist and trimmer.
GoSee the cynic represent two sides of our consciousness, light Treme GoSee.
We are self concerned realists.
Again, [inaudible].
Like wherein we like to pretend we're above such selfishness.
This seems to relate to the basic idea that in a hyper competitive society,
we all run the risk of acting like cannibalistic monsters as God's Tulu or
tortilla argues.
Perhaps there are individuals who would give up their position voluntarily to
achieve a more egalitarian society. However,
we're the group that should give in.
That's very difficult to collectively agree on. We are all selfish,
but there are some among us who are very selfish. The latter, the most selfish,
like the fuse and the fire of selfishness spreads easily among the others.
Now we can sit here and decode little details. For example,
the woman who sent Guerin to the prison has no idea what the prison is like an
allegory for how those who manage society have no idea about the basic
conditions they're condemning others to face or how the delicate artful
presentation of the food is meant to represent our obsession with all the luxury
capitalism produces while what's left for the vast majority of the world's
population is abject poverty, but we're not the first to even mentioned this.
So let's move.
Books and stuff.
Civically Gordon's new favorite book,
Don Quixote with the help of arguably the world's first modern novel,
we can better understand this symbolism and a whole lot more Goran,
like all prisoners in the film gets to bring one item,
but rather than bringing a gun or a creative vitamins, like a smart person,
he brings Miguel de Cervantes, the ingenious gentlemen,
donkey Quixote of Lamancha.
Now most people were called donkey Otay as the story of a delusional man who
gets into fights with windmills thinking they're giants.
And while that is important,
some of the basic overarching themes of the novel can actually help us
understand what the film is trying to say. Alonzo Hano,
alias donkey Otay is an elderly Spanish nobleman who reads so many books that
his brain begins to rot. Specifically. He reads tales of chivalry.
He becomes obsessed with the nobler lost past and vendors out on a delusional
journey. As a night errand, he sets out to rescue a rando peasant,
who he deems a damsel in distress and randomly names her Dulcinea because why
now he also fights windmills thinking they're giants and declares his Squire
Sancho Panza governor of some Island.
Now one clear parallel to these delusional journeys is Mahari a woman who once a
month kills her cellmate and goes on a quest Mahara isn't in search of chivalry,
but a child who we're told doesn't actually exist,
except that child is real allegedly,
but I digress in the film.
It's unclear what the hell is going on in society that leads Goran to
voluntarily send himself to prison to earn a degree,
but that's exactly what happens.
And he hopes to quit smoking and to read Don Quixote along the way,
we don't know a whole lot about Grenz literary habits otherwise,
but he starts off his journey like Don Quixote has an idealist,
but rather than chasing delusional visions of fighting monsters and saving
damsels in distress,
he's motivated by the delusion that basic human goodness and decency can prevail
in a trash castle like the whole, but as the film progresses,
he slowly stripped of these illusions after trying to get others to cooperate by
eating reasonable portions.
[Inaudible].
He's promptly accused of being a communist and watches his cellmate
on the prisoners below them like donkey Otay grin also loses his mind in a more
literal sense. Vis-a-vis trippy hallucinations,
but instead of ideas of chivalry,
he's haunted by reminders of the horrible things he's done and witnessed in the
prison after co murdering and eating his first cellmate Goren scores,
a spot on a higher level of the prison here.
He returns to his former ideas of nobleness and human decency this time though,
he does.
So with the awareness that spontaneous solidarity as his new cellmate describes
is a sham.
[Inaudible].
The only way to make his fellow prisoners more generous to those below them is
to literally threaten them with.
[Inaudible].
After going back down, eating another roommate, but this time with no murder.
And once again, landing a spot on a higher floor,
grin enters a second kind of quixotic journey. He meets his own Sancho,
Panza Baja Herat, and they decided to go on a quest to the bottom of the prison.
Their mission is first to feed everyone,
but then they get another idea in their head to deliver a message to the
administration.
We're not the animals you think we are by violently enforcing a portion control
and preserving a single panacotta dish.
They will prove the nobility of their spirit to the people in charge of the
prison. LA panacotta.
Elements.
Of course, the sense of nobility,
much like donkey IOTs as quickly undercut as a montage of skull,
batching and sues. So pretty deep, but that gets us to the end,
which is kind of a giant WTF.
But a brief note on Don Quixote will help us understand this puzzling finale,
which kicks off when grin and Bahar rat find mirrors.
Wasn't supposed to exist child at the bottom of the prison.
After some hesitancy, they decide to feed her their prized dessert,
which is to say all their skull bashing was maybe for nothing Goran and Bahar
rats, obsessive mantra that the panacotta is the message changes.
Gran wakes up from a dream realizing the girl is the message.
And he descends with her to the dark depths of the prison.
The ghost of Treme GoSee paraphrase is a donkey de passage in which the goofy
night remarks DeSanto about how intertwined their fates are.
[Inaudible] [inaudible]
[inaudible] [inaudible].
Grin sends her back up to the top of the platform while walking into the
shadows, a Treme GoSee. He is presumably very much dead, but on the bright side,
he has quit smoking. Here's what Maddix and donkey Otay.
The protagonist eventually gives up his delusions, renouncing chivalry,
and dying in a fevered state.
One way to read the finale is this Goran has also given up his delusions,
his nobility,
or more specifically that he can prove his humanity to the administration by
sending them back their treasured panacotta.
Instead he opts for a another message.
It's you who are the real monsters and here's the proof a child whom those in
charge claimed would never be confined in their hellhole.
The takeaway of the film seems to be this oftentimes oppressed folks,
try to prove their own humanity to their oppressors. However,
perhaps their strategy should actually be to prove the inhumanity of their
oppressors. And it's a nice thought thought-provoking defin.
So is the film deep or dumped on the literary symbolism? It's pretty deep.
The filmmaker uses the themes of donkey Otay in a novel and thoughtful way, but,
and I'm sorry,
I can't stop from thinking that lots about this movie is kind of dunk with
typologies to the director, chatty with the wisecrack crew,
there was a general sense that this movie was too on the nose,
which is to say a little bit too precisely resembling something.
I could probably read on Twitter for most of the film, the messages,
if we could all stop being greedy, there'd be enough food for everyone.
It's not that I disagree with the message, but it's hardly a revelation.
If I can give a more theoretical framework on the nosiness is to social
commentary, what fans services to franchise movies, moments, characters,
and dialogue that are meant to have us nod along and say, ah, yes,
this speaks to me and star Wars.
It's seen a recycled Han solo lines spark a sense of nostalgia without any of
the narrative way to the original more broadly in media.
It's when old ideas are recycled to spark a sense of agreement without any of
the provocation.
That idea once originally had I'm sure the first person who said sharing is
caring was really smart,
but your kindergarten teacher is no Dostoevsky for saying so it's not that this
makes those ideas inherently good or bad,
but good art furthers the conversation. Instead of putting it on a loop,
consider a film like Snowpiercer,
which also takes a horrible stratified society as a gift rather than the lower
classes over throwing their cruel overlords and cheering.
Bong Joon home makes us ask really hard questions like does the system secretly
want revolt? Is society designed to make suffering inevitable?
It also shows us the logic of those in power Tilda Swinton's character is
certifiably bonkers,
but seems to be a real believer with her own fears and the conductor that keeps
the nightmare chugging along has his own very logical reasons for being a
monster. He truly thinks that's the only way for humanity to survive and to the
platform's credit. I do think the ending kind of gets to this,
but at the message really is show the people in power, what monsters they are.
It's hard to do since they barely have any screen time. Does it work?
Are they swayed? It's obviously meant to be ambiguous and revealing.
The answer would have been totally weird given the prior absence,
but as far as the basic idea, if 2020 has taught me anything,
it's that oftentimes reality doesn't dictate political discourse.
So my final assessment, there are certainly some smarts to this movie,
but it's no masterpiece, but it tried.
And for that to cast crew and director deserve all the Panna,
cottas their heart's desire.
And I'm legitimately excited to see what guests Taylor [inaudible] plans on
doing next. What do you think? Or we just do crash it either.
Everybody is bombed Juno or Nicholas cage at this point.
Let us know what you think in the comments.
A huge thanks to our amazing patrons for supporting the channel,
hit that subscribe button. Like it's an unruly cannibalistic cellmate,
and as always, thanks for watching later.
[Inaudible].